after almost five hours the whales
finally seem to be staying at the
surface Philippe and too near desperate
to observe them underwater
the large females in this group are over
nine meters long and can weigh more than
12 tons each
you can see how they've just turn around
and touch each other and so so social
the whales are socializing this is a
rare sight it suggests their food stocks
are plentiful as they can afford to take
time out from hunting
it shows the explosion of Humboldt squid
might actually be benefiting these
animals
suddenly Diane spots something
astonishing at the surface a large
mature male has joined the group this
giant in the center of the pack could
weigh over 40 tons male sperm whales
have the largest brain of any animal
that's ever lived we don't see that
everything
now seriously this is you're lucky it's
a treat
adult males usually live in small groups
in the cold waters around the poles so
this one has probably come here to breed
after a short time he grows sexually
aroused and starts courting the females
this behavior is seldom seen and it
shows how important the Sea of Cortez is
as a breeding ground for sperm whales
more than any other this time has
illustrated why the health of this sea
is so vital to the life within it
you